
If you want to target DevOps Engineering Jobs in 2024, Linux for DevOps  is the first thing that you need to learn.
In this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AGQGOhtRcTo


- How does the Internet Work?
  mymobile--ISP(it install router and other required setup)--opticalfibre(inside sea) or fibrecable--datacenter.

- What is the diffrence between server and client?
  server is responsible to serve the query and client will request his query from the server.

- Difference between a web server and an application server?
  webserver generally serve staticdata(nginx)  whereas application server serves dynamicdata(django,nodejs).

- Types of applications?
  in general thereare 2 types of application. standalone and web application.

- What are standalone apps?
  A program that does not require operating system's services to run.
  A portable application, which can be run without the need for installation procedure.There is no need of database,frontend,backend etc

- What are web applications?
  A web application is software that runs in your web browser.
  Businesses have to exchange information and deliver services remotely. They use web applications to connect with customers conveniently and securely.
  It requires database,frontend,backend and many more things to operate 

- What is application support?
- What is application maintenance?

- *Introduction of Linux - 

-  1) What is Linux? Introduction to Linux Operating System(OS)
-  2) How to install Linux? 
-  3) how to download & install Linux (Ubuntu) on a Windows PC? 
      1.WSL (windows subsystem for linux)
      2.VirtualBox("https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Ei2_q-LDjk"(How to install Ubuntu 20.04 on any computer | Virtual-box tutorial))
      3.AWS azzure GCP instance or VM 
      4.Vagrant by hashicorp  
      5.andmanymore. 
-  4) Difference between Linux and Windows? 
      1.Window is having "commercial licence" which is paid whereas linux is having "GPL(general public licence)" which is free for public.
      2.Linux generally focuses on development,networking,terminal,programming,scripting,No AntiVirus required
      3. Windows is used for general purpose which is GUI oriented things.
      4.etcetera

-  5) Software remote location server tools?
      1.RDP
      2.SSH 
      3.etcetera

-  6) What are kernel, Bootloader, and shell?
   kernel is like a heart of operating system....kernel of linux is called linux kernel
   But kernel is written in some language which i may not know eg C.
   Here comes shell in picture which works as mediator between user and kernel and IT consists of shell commands like ls,ll etc.

   Bootloader:-The bootloader is a program that is responsible for loading the operating system kernel into memory.
   There are various bootloaders in Linux, some of the common ones are LILO, GRUB, BURG, and SYSLINUX

-  7) Desktop environment

-  8) Linux System Architecture?
   Hardware--Kernel--shell--utility/application/etc--users

-  9) Information about hardware?
   If we want to obtain information about hardware like RAM CPU DiscSpace etc then we use some of the commands like:-
   1.top: All the processes running will be displayed
   2.df -h: All the Hardisc sizes will be diaplayed 
   3.free: RAM will get displayed
   4.etcetera

- 10) Linux file system?
   Linux file system is generally a built-in layer of a Linux operating system used to handle the data management of the storage.
   It helps to arrange the file on the disk storage.
   It manages the file name, file size, creation date, and much more information about a file.

- 11) Difference between Linux and Unix?
   UNIX is called as the parent of LINUX.Unix is paid whereas Linux is open source.

- 12) States of Processes in Linux?
   Several processes in linux are:-
   1.Running
   2.Sleeping
   3.Killed
   4.Terminated
   5.Zombie
   6.etcetera
